If your repo is used with more than one AI coding assistant, you are probably
maintaining the same knowledge three times.

Claude Code reads CLAUDE.md. GitHub Copilot reads .github/copilot-instructions.md.
Cursor reads .cursor/rules/*.mdc. Same guidance, three files, drifting apart —
and adding a fourth tool means writing it a fourth time.

I spent a weekend reading the actual vendor documentation for six of these tools.
The differences are sharper than I expected:

→ Cursor ignores plain .md files inside .cursor/rules — they must be .mdc
→ Gemini CLI commands are TOML with a "prompt" key, not Markdown
→ Copilot scopes rules with applyTo:, Cursor with globs: and alwaysApply:
→ MCP server config comes in three incompatible schemas: mcpServers (Claude),
  servers (VS Code), context_servers (Zed)

So I built agentmeld. One canonical copy in .ai/, mirrored into every tool's own
location — a real symlink where the formats agree, a generated file where they
genuinely differ. Edit any mirror and you have edited the source. A file one
agent writes gets adopted back and fanned out to the others automatically, via a
git hook, an editor hook, or a watcher.

  pip install agentmeld

Three things I made myself do properly, because this tool moves people's files:

1. Every vendor path is marked verified or unverified against that vendor's own
   documentation. Unverified paths are excluded from syncing unless you opt in.
   A tool that reorganises your repo should not act on a guess.

2. There is a way back out. "agentmeld restore" turns every mirror into a real
   file and steps out of the way, or restores your original files exactly as
   they were before you started.

3. It is tested on Linux, macOS and Windows across Python 3.9 to 3.13 — 190
   tests, plus scenario testing against the published package rather than only
   the source.

Honest about scope: it supports six tools, not forty. If you want the widest
coverage, rulesync is excellent and supports 40+. agentmeld exists for the two
things it does differently — symlinks instead of copies, and syncing that
happens automatically instead of when you remember.

MIT licensed. Feedback and pull requests welcome, especially from anyone who
knows a tool's config layout better than its docs do.

https://github.com/moneytool/agentmeld

#AI #DeveloperTools #OpenSource #Python #SoftwareEngineering
